intense fighting is continuing in Gaza
just hours after the passing of the
first un Security Council resolution
calling for an immediate ceasefire
Witnesses say Israeli war planes have
again bombed the southern city of Rafa
with gun battles raging in other areas
this is the moment the vote was passed
after previous attempts to call for a
ceasefire failed the US is now calling
for an immediate surge in desperate
needed Aid these are the latest pictures
in the past hour of air being a of Aid
being air dropped into Gaza the UN world
food program says famin could set in by
May in two areas of Gaza unless the flow
of Aid is
increased Israel's prime minister has
responded to the UN vote by cancelling
some meetings between Israeli and
American officials meanwhile Hamas
appears to have rejected the latest trth
proposal made via mediators in Qatar
well let's go live to Jerusalem and our
Middle East correspondent yoland n
yoland what more do we know about the
state of fighting in Gaza overnight just
after this UN resolution was
passed I mean it seems that the
resolution passing has had very little
impact on the ground what we've heard
from Palestinian witnesses that even in
Rafa on the Egypt border there have been
Israeli air strikes in that area and
that fighting remains intense um
particularly around the two hospitals
that we've been talking about for the
past few days uh the shiffer hospital in
Gaza City that's where Israeli forces
launched a raid one week ago where they
say they've rounded up 500 members of
Hamas and Islamic Jihad um Palestinian
residents nearby saying they've seen
corpses on the street that there are
still um Close Quarters battles going on
there also in al-amal hospital around Al
AML hospital um in the southern city of
Khan Unice Israeli tanks are rolling
back in there in the past couple of days
and uh the Israeli military has said
that Hamas is using civilian
infrastructure in that area and Y land
what's the feeling there in the region
about what kind of a difference this
resolution could bring to the fighting
there in
Gaza well of course while Israel reacted
very angrily uh to this and it said that
um this could be uh an encouragement for
Hamas that it didn't have to give up the
Israeli hostages that it's still holding
um in exchange uh for a ceasefire and we
had um strong rebukes from the Israeli
Prime Minister when it comes uh to the
American position the exstension when it
came to voting on uh Security Council
resolution
2728 um the the claim was made that
really this um marked a Divergence from
Washington's previous policy um the US
has denied that but on the the
Palestinian side uh this was welcomed
including by Hamas but as we can see
it's not um despite the fact un Security
Council resolutions are seen as having
the force of international law um we
also had a White House official um when
he was talking about the Israeli
reaction saying that he didn't think um
really that this would have an impact on
Israel's ability to tackle Hamas and
that it didn't change things when it
comes to uh the US commitment to Israel
particularly when it comes to matters
like military assistance so seeing the
strong support for this resol resolution
at the UN Security Council how isolated
is Israel on the global stage would you
say now this is something that will
concern Israel greatly it does feel very
much like it's isolated but at the same
time if you um look at surveys of the
Israeli public opinion um there is still
wide support for the war in Gaza um and
for this idea of of dismantling Hamas
there it's seen as being such an
existential threat we've had reminders
that Hamas can still pose a threat in
the past day it's had we've had Rockets
fired um to Ash D Israeli city uh in in
the south of the country for the first
time in weeks there were rocket warning
sirens that continued to go off through
last night um in Israeli communities
close to the Gaza Strip um but yes on an
international stage Israel will be
worried about this and we've had Israeli
officials coming out in the past day so
particularly talking about how they are
trying to get surge of Aid using that un
language trying to flood uh Gaza with
Aid we were told in a briefing yesterday
um as that is part of this resolution
too and of course part of the big
International demand that they're so
worried about the threat of starvation
and famine in Gaza your land thank you
very much that's the BBC's your land now
there in Jerusalem now as well as
calling for a ceasefire the UN is also
warning that northern areas of Gaza
could face famine within weeks Israel
says it's opening new routes to let Aid
through and the Israeli Army Chief in
charge of Aid coordination says there's
no shortage of food I should warn you
that this report from our Middle East
correspondent Lucy Williamson contains
some distressing images from the very
start gaza's border fence divides more
than just land on one side Food Supplies
on the other sick malnourished children
agencies say Israel is blocking Aid
Israel says the only hold up is the
agency's ability to deliver
it a ceasefire could help get Aid in but
Israel has said it won't work with the
un's main relief agency Ana accusing it
of links to Hamas Ona's Chief said the
ban was
outrageous gate 96 a newly opened
Crossing Point takes trucks straight to
Gaza City
where the UN says people are weeks away
from
famine on the night we were there the
Army said 20 trucks were approved to
cross but only seven showed up we took a
lot of measures in order to enlarge the
amount of humanitarian aid but the UN
and other International Organization
have some bottlenecks they have issues
and challence regarding Logistics of
amount of trucks amount of uh truck
drivers
Manpower uh working hours and
Etc on board one of those trucks the
local head of the world food program
with a different explanation on this
particular Convoy we were given a limit
of 15 vetted drivers by the IDF that
were cleared to use this route but only
seven were available to us some had
already gone up to Gaza City the day
before and they simply hadn't been able
to return yet we literally need 50 60 70
80 truck drivers cleared to use these
routes every single
day Israel is Keen to show the world
it's allowing more Aid into Gaza but it
says it's not responsible for the amount
of Aid going in international law says
different it says Israel has a duty not
just to open the gates but to get food
and medicine to the people under its
control do you think children are
starving in Gaza I know that they are
not so when you see those pictures of
children Starving in hospital what do
you
think I say it and I will say it again
as much as I know there is no starvation
in
[Music]
Gaza two things are crossing this border
Aid and the army they bring food and War
life and death Lucy Williamson BBC news
on the Gaza
border the UK's Royal air Force has air
dropped more than 10 tons of food into
Gaza for the first time including water
rice and baby formula the a drop comes
amid fears that 1.1 million gazers
gazans face imminent famine in a
catastrophic humanitarian crisis the
defense secretary Grant shaps urged
Israel to allow more Aid into the war
torn territory